---
layout: page
title: About
---

<p class="message">
  Hey there! This page is included as an example. Feel free to customize it for your own use upon downloading. Carry on!
</p>
Greetings, hackers
I've been reflecting on my life lately and had this thought:  Teenagers have the reputation as thinking they know everything about life, and while they may be naive and stubborn, I think adults may be have a much worse mindset.  Once they get entrenched in a job, they can live a comfortable, stable life without having to really change the way they think or drastically increase their knowledge base.  They may not think they know everything, but they're content with knowing enough.  Sure, people get better at their jobs over time and develop their leadership abilities incrementally, but think about everything you learned in high school.  I started high school as a half formed 14 year old grub-human and picked up advanced algebra, trigonometry, two years of calculus, history, chemistry, biology, physics, four years of German, geography, read dozens of pieces of fine literature and learned hundreds of words in English, became quite adept at a musical instrument, learned how to play hockey, got introduced to computer programming, and still had time for getting into trouble with friends.  That's a massive breadth and depth of information to be crammed into four years.  Sure, a lot of the teachers weren't great and much of that knowledge didn't stuck, but I bet with a light refresher, much of it would still come back readily.  College had a much deeper and less broad subject matter, but still added a massive amount to my knowledge base.  Since graduating I've certainly learned new things, but not nearly on the scale of the school years.  Sure, I'm working eight hours a day and have obligations with a home and family, but the number of really high quality free educational resources is huge right now.  The instructional methodologies are far superior to high school and most college classes that I took, so the amount of learning returned for unit time invested will be far greater than in the years of formal schooling.  

I recently took the Coursera.org course, 'Learning How to Learn', and found it really inspiring to broaden and deepen my knowledge in hopes of becoming a more complete person.  I realized that I'm guilty of a lot of the lies we tell ourselves about learning and hope to strike those from my psyche. The first lie, aka the fallacy of competence, is thinking that reading something enough times makes me really master it.  I have to put a new principle into practice, and work problems from multiple angles so I really understand it and not just spewing some rote memorization.  The second lie is that I can learn something once and know it permanently.  Truly learning something requires regular practice to strengthen the neural connections that situate it firmly in long term memory.  I'm an avid gardener, and gardening is full of great old-timey sayings.  One I really like, in regards to planting and establishing a new tree, is that you should water it once a day for the first week, once a week for the first month, and once a month for the first year.  You can't just throw it in the ground, flood it the first day, and think it will thrive.  Likewise, doing a single marathon study session is not going to lead to good long term learning.  Here's another good one: plant a $1 plant in a $10 hole.  There's a lot that goes into learning besides just reading the book.  You need to get a good night's sleep, eat well, exercise, have an enriching environment, and study with others to learn best.

In an effort to be more productive, I've started this log to keep tabs one what I've been working on. With some interviews looming, I'd like to really sharpen my coding skills on foundational computer science type problems so I can do really well on technical interview questions without tensing up or panicking.  I am likely to see recursion, search, sort, and binary tree problems, so I'll definitely do those on Hackerrank's 'Cracking the Coding Interview' section.  I'd also like to formalize some of the scripts and queries I use to do analysis for my own business.  Having gone to engineering school, I missed out on a lot of fun subjects that I wish I could have learned.  French, Spanish, art history, drawing, and piano to name a few.  Finally, I'll thrown in some fun stuff relating to my current hobbies: photography, cooking, biking, bodyweight exercises, yoga and skateboarding.  That's a lot to cover, and I certainly won't get around to everything each day, but even five minutes will really add up over the long run.  Five minutes a day is 35 minute a week is 150 minutes a month is 600 minutes a year.  Who did ten hours worth of pushups last year? Ten hours worth of quick Spanish Skype sessions?

When keeping effort intervals short, I think you can really get the maximum return on time investment for a lot of things.  Sure, for something like a coding problem, five mintues is barely enough time to read the problem and get the IDE set up, but for the things that I'm a total novice at, five minutes a day will be huge.  For those things that I have more experience with, full Pomodoro sessions of 25 minutes will be more appropriate, and several of them per day will be ideal.

I'm also going to try to reduce some of my bad habits.  I'm don't think of myself as a heavy drinker, but I tend to enjoy either a beer when I get home in the evening or a large whiskey before bed(which also may not be the best for sleep quality despite conventional wisdom). Since the whiskies are generally generous pours or around 2oz, let's say that over 7 days that will yield 10 drinks.  I usually have at least once social occasion on the weekends, so that might add another 2 or 3 drinks in the form of beer or wine.  That's putting me dangerously close to the NIH defined level of heavy drinking of 14 drinks per week.  And there are certain people I hang out with that I always tend to go overboard with and end up having five in a night, which is considered binge drinking. I think the social drinking on the weekends is for the most part ok, but I think that I should try to have 2 instead of 3, or 3 instead of 5.  I think kombucha, herbal teas(hibiscus!), and sparkling water can help with this.  A great strategy that I occassionally use is to alternate between alcoholic an non-alcoholic beverages.  Herbal teas also make a great bedtime drink replacement.  I enjoy chamomile, peppermint, and some of the Celestial Seasonings sleepytime blends.  Both my nightly drinking and social drinking are routines that are triggered by cues.  When the clock strikes 10pm, I start thinking that I should get my pre-sleep ritual going, which often means reading garbage on my phone on the couch with whiskey by my side.  Instead, I need to program a secondary response to the cue, which is to fire up the tea kettle and steep some chamomile.  I think the ceremonial nature of the tea makes it a really good replacement, as it will tie it to other parts of my neurology.  Lighting the fire on the stove will trigger my intrinsic human love of fire, swirling the hot water over the chamomile buds will help prepare me for sinking into a warm cocoon of swirling sheets and dreams.
